docs/environment/custom-domains.md, before:

---
title: Custom domain names
current_menu: custom-domains
introduction: Configure custom domain names for your web applications.
---

AWS generates random domain names for [HTTP applications](/docs/runtimes/http.md):

```
https://<random>.execute-api.<region>.amazonaws.com/Prod/
```

It is possible to replace those URLs by a custom domain.

> These guides assume you already own the domain name you will want to use.

## Custom domains for HTTP lambdas

The first thing to do is register the domain in **ACM** (AWS Certificate Manager) to get a HTTPS certificate. This step is not optional.

- open [this link](https://console.aws.amazon.com/acm/home?region=us-east-1#/wizard/) or manually go in the ACM Console and click "Request a new certificate" in the `us-east-1` region (the region used for global "edge" certificates)
- add your domain name and click "Next"
- choose the domain validation of your choice
    - domain validation will require you to add entries to your DNS configuration
    - email validation will require you to click a link you will receive in an email sent to `admin@your-domain.com`

After validating the domain and the certificate we can now link the custom domain to our application via API Gateway.

- open [API Gateway's "Custom Domain" configuration](https://eu-west-3.console.aws.amazon.com/apigateway/home#/custom-domain-names)
- **switch to the region of your application**
- click "Create Custom Domain Name"
- enter your domain name, select the certificate you created above and save
- edit the domain that was created
- add a "Path mapping" to map the `/` URL (or any URL you want) to your HTTP application in the `Prod` stage, for example:

  ![](custom-domains-path-mapping.png)
- after clicking "Save", note the URL in the `Target Domain Name` section (`<random>.cloudfront.net`)
- create a CNAME entry in your DNS to point your domain name to this `<random>.cloudfront.net` domain

After waiting for the DNS change to propagate (sometimes up to 24 hours) your website is now accessible via your custom domain.

## Custom domains for static files on S3

Some applications serve static files hosted on AWS S3. You can read the [Websites](/docs/websites.md#hosting-static-files-with-s3) documentation to learn more.

The S3 bucket can be accessed at this URL: `https://<bucket>.s3.amazonaws.com/` (supports both HTTP and HTTPS).

To use a custom domain for a S3 static website the process lies in 2 steps:

- name the S3 bucket like the wanted domain name

  For example for the http://www.example.com website, the S3 bucket has to be named `www.example.com`
- point the domain to the S3 URL via DNS

  In our example the DNS entry to create would be a CNAME for `www.example.com` pointing to `www.example.com.s3.amazonaws.com`

### Static websites

If you are hosting a full static website with HTML files ([per this documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/dev/WebsiteHosting.html)), the URLs to use will be different:

```bash
http://<bucket>.s3-website-<region>.amazonaws.com/
# or
http://<bucket>.s3-website.<region>.amazonaws.com/
```

In that case you need to use the domains above for the CNAME.

Note that the URL is **HTTP-only** and [depends on the region](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/general/latest/gr/rande.html#s3_website_region_endpoints).

To add HTTPS to your website for free it is possible to use a CDN like [CloudFlare](https://cloudflare.com/) (simplest) or [AWS CloudFront](/docs/websites.md#serving-php-and-static-files-via-cloudfront).

Commit message:

Update custom-domains documentation
Add quotes about `serverless-domain-manager` plugin

docs/environment/custom-domains.md, after:

---
title: Custom domain names
current_menu: custom-domains
introduction: Configure custom domain names for your web applications.
---

AWS generates random domain names for [HTTP applications](/docs/runtimes/http.md):

```
https://<random>.execute-api.<region>.amazonaws.com/Prod/
```

It is possible to replace those URLs by a custom domain.

> These guides assume you already own the domain name you will want to use.

## Custom domains for HTTP lambdas

The first thing to do is register the domain in **ACM** (AWS Certificate Manager) to get a HTTPS certificate. This step is not optional.

- open [this link](https://console.aws.amazon.com/acm/home?region=us-east-1#/wizard/) or manually go in the ACM Console and click "Request a new certificate" in the `us-east-1` region (the region used for global "edge" certificates)
- add your domain name and click "Next"
- choose the domain validation of your choice
    - domain validation will require you to add entries to your DNS configuration
    - email validation will require you to click a link you will receive in an email sent to `admin@your-domain.com`

After validating the domain and the certificate we can now link the custom domain to our application via API Gateway.

- open [API Gateway's "Custom Domain" configuration](https://eu-west-3.console.aws.amazon.com/apigateway/home#/custom-domain-names)
- **switch to the region of your application**
- click "Create Custom Domain Name"
- enter your domain name, select the certificate you created above and save
- edit the domain that was created
- add a "Path mapping" to map the `/` URL (or any URL you want) to your HTTP application in the `Prod` stage, for example:

  ![](custom-domains-path-mapping.png)
- after clicking "Save", note the URL in the `Target Domain Name` section (`<random>.cloudfront.net`)
- create a CNAME entry in your DNS to point your domain name to this `<random>.cloudfront.net` domain

After waiting for the DNS change to propagate (sometimes up to 24 hours) your website is now accessible via your custom domain.

> You can also take a look at the plugin [serverless-domain-manager](https://www.serverless.com/plugins/serverless-domain-manager).  
> It handle the custom domain creation and optionnally add the route53 record if asked (You'll still have to manage the certificate creation).  
> 
> A basic implementation is proposed here : https://www.serverless.com/blog/serverless-api-gateway-domain#create-a-custom-domain-in-api-gateway  


## Custom domains for static files on S3

Some applications serve static files hosted on AWS S3. You can read the [Websites](/docs/websites.md#hosting-static-files-with-s3) documentation to learn more.

The S3 bucket can be accessed at this URL: `https://<bucket>.s3.amazonaws.com/` (supports both HTTP and HTTPS).

To use a custom domain for a S3 static website the process lies in 2 steps:

- name the S3 bucket like the wanted domain name

  For example for the http://www.example.com website, the S3 bucket has to be named `www.example.com`
- point the domain to the S3 URL via DNS

  In our example the DNS entry to create would be a CNAME for `www.example.com` pointing to `www.example.com.s3.amazonaws.com`

### Static websites

If you are hosting a full static website with HTML files ([per this documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/dev/WebsiteHosting.html)), the URLs to use will be different:

```bash
http://<bucket>.s3-website-<region>.amazonaws.com/
# or
http://<bucket>.s3-website.<region>.amazonaws.com/
```

In that case you need to use the domains above for the CNAME.

Note that the URL is **HTTP-only** and [depends on the region](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/general/latest/gr/rande.html#s3_website_region_endpoints).

To add HTTPS to your website for free it is possible to use a CDN like [CloudFlare](https://cloudflare.com/) (simplest) or [AWS CloudFront](/docs/websites.md#serving-php-and-static-files-via-cloudfront).
