docs/environment/database.md, before:

---
title: Using a database
currentMenu: php
introduction: Configure Bref to use a database in your PHP application on AWS Lambda.
---

AWS offers the [RDS](https://aws.amazon.com/rds/) service to run MySQL and PostgreSQL databases.

Here are the database services offered by RDS:

- MySQL
- PostgreSQL
- [Aurora MySQL](https://aws.amazon.com/rds/aurora/): optimized closed-source fork
- [Aurora PostgreSQL](https://aws.amazon.com/rds/aurora/): optimized closed-source fork
- [Aurora Serverless MySQL](https://aws.amazon.com/rds/aurora/serverless/): scales automatically on-demand

Aurora serverless can be configured to scale down to 0 instances when unused (which costs $0), however be careful with this option: the database can take up to 30 seconds to un-pause.

## Limitations

RDS databases run inside [VPCs](https://aws.amazon.com/fr/vpc/) (virtual private network) to keep them isolated from the internet. Connecting to a RDS database from Lambda requires either:

- exposing the database publicly (not recommended for security reasons)
- running the Lambda in the database's VPC

Beside making the configuration more complex, running in a VPC has a major caveat: the lambda suffers from much longer **cold starts**.

On average cold starts due to VPC are around **5 seconds**. This can be a deal-breaker for scenarios like real-time APIs.

> 🎉 AWS is planning on removing this caveat in 2019. We will keep this page updated when this happens.

A common work-around is to "ping" the lambda functions every 5 minutes to avoid cold starts. This [might not work](https://hackernoon.com/im-afraid-you-re-thinking-about-aws-lambda-cold-starts-all-wrong-7d907f278a4f) for applications with very variable loads.

## Creating a database

On the [RDS console](https://console.aws.amazon.com/rds/home):

- click "Create database"
- select the type of database you want to create and fill in the form
- for a simpler configuration leave the default VPC in the last step

Tips to better control costs:

- for non-critical databases you can disable replication
- switch storage to "General Purpose (SSD)" for lower costs
- you can disable "enhanced monitoring" to avoid the associated costs

## Accessing the database from PHP

To retrieve the information needed to let AWS Lambda access the database go into [the RDS dashboard](https://console.aws.amazon.com/rds/home#databases:) and open the database you created.

> It may take some minutes for the database to be created.

Find:

- the "endpoint", which is the hostname of the database (this information is available only after the database creation has completed)

    ℹ️ Instead of connecting via a socket, via `localhost` or an IP address, PHP will connect to MySQL via this hostname.
- the "security group ID" (in the "VPC security groups" section), which looks like `sg-03f68e1100481622b`

    ℹ️ A [security group](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/vpc/latest/userguide/VPC_SecurityGroups.html) is a firewall that restricts access to/from the VPC using "Inbound rules" and "Outbound rules".
- the list of "subnets", which look like `subnet-12f4130e` (there are several subnets)

    ℹ️ An AWS region is divided in [availability zones](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/using-regions-availability-zones.html) (different data centers): there is usually one subnet per availability zone.

Put these information in `template.yaml` in your function configuration:

```yaml
Resources:
    MyFunction:
        ...
        Properties:
            ...
            VpcConfig:
                SecurityGroupIds:
                    - sg-03f68e1100481622b
                SubnetIds:
                    - subnet-12f4130e
                    - subnet-c5fe33e5
                    - subnet-11aa85dc
                    - subnet-85dcf240
            Policies:
                - AWSLambdaVPCAccessExecutionRole # Allows the lambda to access the VPC
```

Now we need to authorize connections to the RDS security group (because the lambda is in the VPC but outside of this VPC group) (https://www.reddit.com/r/aws/comments/8nr8ek/lambda_rds_connection_timeout/):

- open the database configuration in RDS and click the security group
- in the "Inbound" tab click "Edit"
- add a rule: select MySQL/Aurora (or PostgreSQL) and set a "custom" source: select the security group itself (type `sg-` and use the autocompletion)
- save

Your PHP application will be able to connect to the database through the "endpoint" you noted above.

For example a PDO connection string could be:

```
mysql://user:password@dbname.e2sctvp0nqos.us-east-1.rds.amazonaws.com/dbname
```

### Accessing the internet

By default, a lambda in a VPC can only access resources inside the VPC. It cannot access the internet (for example external APIs) or other AWS services.

To enable external access you will need to create a NAT Gateway in the VPC. Watch out, a NAT Gateway will increase the costs as they start at 27$ per month. An alternative to NAT Gateways is to split the work done by a lambda in 2 lambdas: one in the VPC that accesses the database and one outside that accesses the external API.

To enable internet access for the lambda you can follow [this tutorial](https://medium.com/@philippholly/aws-lambda-enable-outgoing-internet-access-within-vpc-8dd250e11e12).

### Learn more

You can learn more about limitations and guidelines from the AWS documentation about [Configuring a lambda to access resources in a VPC](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/lambda/latest/dg/vpc.html).

## Accessing the database from your machine

Since the database is in a VPC, it cannot be accessed from the outside (i.e. the internet). You cannot connect to your database with MySQL Workbench or other administration tools.

When creating a new project, the database can be set up through several means:

- via a lambda that loads a SQL dump into the database (for example a [console lambda](/docs/runtimes/console.md))
- by temporarily exposing the database on the internet

Exposing your database to the internet is risky and should only be done for a few minutes or hours (for example to load a SQL dump).

To do so, open your RDS instance in the [RDS console](https://console.aws.amazon.com/rds/home#databases:):

- click "Modify"
- enable "Public accessibility"
- click "Continue"
- select "Apply immediately" (**do not skip this step**)
- click "Modify DB Instance"

Now click the *security group* of the instance:

- open the "Inbound" tab
- click "Edit"
- add a rule: select "MySQL/Aurora" (or PostgreSQL) and set "Anywhere" as the source (you could also set your public IP for increased security)
- save

Connect to your database using your favorite tool. For example using `mysql` in the CLI:

```bash
mysql -h<endpoint> -u<root user> -p <database>
```

**Remember to revert those changes once you are done!**

Commit message:

Link to the "Variables documentation"

docs/environment/database.md, after:

---
title: Using a database
currentMenu: php
introduction: Configure Bref to use a database in your PHP application on AWS Lambda.
---

AWS offers the [RDS](https://aws.amazon.com/rds/) service to run MySQL and PostgreSQL databases.

Here are the database services offered by RDS:

- MySQL
- PostgreSQL
- [Aurora MySQL](https://aws.amazon.com/rds/aurora/): optimized closed-source fork
- [Aurora PostgreSQL](https://aws.amazon.com/rds/aurora/): optimized closed-source fork
- [Aurora Serverless MySQL](https://aws.amazon.com/rds/aurora/serverless/): scales automatically on-demand

Aurora serverless can be configured to scale down to 0 instances when unused (which costs $0), however be careful with this option: the database can take up to 30 seconds to un-pause.

## Limitations

RDS databases run inside [VPCs](https://aws.amazon.com/fr/vpc/) (virtual private network) to keep them isolated from the internet. Connecting to a RDS database from Lambda requires either:

- exposing the database publicly (not recommended for security reasons)
- running the Lambda in the database's VPC

Beside making the configuration more complex, running in a VPC has a major caveat: the lambda suffers from much longer **cold starts**.

On average cold starts due to VPC are around **5 seconds**. This can be a deal-breaker for scenarios like real-time APIs.

> 🎉 AWS is planning on removing this caveat in 2019. We will keep this page updated when this happens.

A common work-around is to "ping" the lambda functions every 5 minutes to avoid cold starts. This [might not work](https://hackernoon.com/im-afraid-you-re-thinking-about-aws-lambda-cold-starts-all-wrong-7d907f278a4f) for applications with very variable loads.

## Creating a database

On the [RDS console](https://console.aws.amazon.com/rds/home):

- click "Create database"
- select the type of database you want to create and fill in the form
- for a simpler configuration leave the default VPC in the last step

Tips to better control costs:

- for non-critical databases you can disable replication
- switch storage to "General Purpose (SSD)" for lower costs
- you can disable "enhanced monitoring" to avoid the associated costs

## Accessing the database from PHP

To retrieve the information needed to let AWS Lambda access the database go into [the RDS dashboard](https://console.aws.amazon.com/rds/home#databases:) and open the database you created.

> It may take some minutes for the database to be created.

Find:

- the "endpoint", which is the hostname of the database (this information is available only after the database creation has completed)

    ℹ️ Instead of connecting via a socket, via `localhost` or an IP address, PHP will connect to MySQL via this hostname.
- the "security group ID" (in the "VPC security groups" section), which looks like `sg-03f68e1100481622b`

    ℹ️ A [security group](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/vpc/latest/userguide/VPC_SecurityGroups.html) is a firewall that restricts access to/from the VPC using "Inbound rules" and "Outbound rules".
- the list of "subnets", which look like `subnet-12f4130e` (there are several subnets)

    ℹ️ An AWS region is divided in [availability zones](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/using-regions-availability-zones.html) (different data centers): there is usually one subnet per availability zone.

Put these information in `template.yaml` in your function configuration:

```yaml
Resources:
    MyFunction:
        ...
        Properties:
            ...
            VpcConfig:
                SecurityGroupIds:
                    - sg-03f68e1100481622b
                SubnetIds:
                    - subnet-12f4130e
                    - subnet-c5fe33e5
                    - subnet-11aa85dc
                    - subnet-85dcf240
            Policies:
                - AWSLambdaVPCAccessExecutionRole # Allows the lambda to access the VPC
```

Now we need to authorize connections to the RDS security group (because the lambda is in the VPC but outside of this VPC group) (https://www.reddit.com/r/aws/comments/8nr8ek/lambda_rds_connection_timeout/):

- open the database configuration in RDS and click the security group
- in the "Inbound" tab click "Edit"
- add a rule: select MySQL/Aurora (or PostgreSQL) and set a "custom" source: select the security group itself (type `sg-` and use the autocompletion)
- save

Your PHP application will be able to connect to the database through the "endpoint" you noted above.

For example a PDO connection string could be:

```
mysql://user:password@dbname.e2sctvp0nqos.us-east-1.rds.amazonaws.com/dbname
```

To learn how to properly store this connection string in your configuration head over to the ["Secrets" section of the Variables documentation](/docs/environment/variables.md#secrets).

### Accessing the internet

By default, a lambda in a VPC can only access resources inside the VPC. It cannot access the internet (for example external APIs) or other AWS services.

To enable external access you will need to create a NAT Gateway in the VPC. Watch out, a NAT Gateway will increase the costs as they start at 27$ per month. An alternative to NAT Gateways is to split the work done by a lambda in 2 lambdas: one in the VPC that accesses the database and one outside that accesses the external API.

To enable internet access for the lambda you can follow [this tutorial](https://medium.com/@philippholly/aws-lambda-enable-outgoing-internet-access-within-vpc-8dd250e11e12).

### Learn more

You can learn more about limitations and guidelines from the AWS documentation about [Configuring a lambda to access resources in a VPC](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/lambda/latest/dg/vpc.html).

## Accessing the database from your machine

Since the database is in a VPC, it cannot be accessed from the outside (i.e. the internet). You cannot connect to your database with MySQL Workbench or other administration tools.

When creating a new project, the database can be set up through several means:

- via a lambda that loads a SQL dump into the database (for example a [console lambda](/docs/runtimes/console.md))
- by temporarily exposing the database on the internet

Exposing your database to the internet is risky and should only be done for a few minutes or hours (for example to load a SQL dump).

To do so, open your RDS instance in the [RDS console](https://console.aws.amazon.com/rds/home#databases:):

- click "Modify"
- enable "Public accessibility"
- click "Continue"
- select "Apply immediately" (**do not skip this step**)
- click "Modify DB Instance"

Now click the *security group* of the instance:

- open the "Inbound" tab
- click "Edit"
- add a rule: select "MySQL/Aurora" (or PostgreSQL) and set "Anywhere" as the source (you could also set your public IP for increased security)
- save

Connect to your database using your favorite tool. For example using `mysql` in the CLI:

```bash
mysql -h<endpoint> -u<root user> -p <database>
```

**Remember to revert those changes once you are done!**
